Add quantum-serverless run docs (#209)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/run/quantum-serverless.mdx

---
title: Run workloads with quantum serverless
description: Run workloads using quantum serverless
---

# Run workloads with quantum serverless

Premium users can run their workloads remotely on classical compute made available through IBM Quantum Platform.

For more information, see the [quantum serverless docs](https://qiskit-extensions.github.io/quantum-serverless/).

<Admonition type="note">
    This is an experimental feature, subject to change.
</Admonition>

## Build a workflow

> Here is an example of computing the quasi-probability distribution of a quantum circuit using the Qiskit Runtime Estimator primitive. This Python script should be saved in your working directory. (Warning! All contents of the working directory will be shipped to the cluster for execution.)

Reviewer: should be "computing the expectation value using the Qiskit Runtime Estimator primitive" since we've switched away from Sampler.

from qiskit.circuit.random import random_circuit
from qiskit.quantum_info import SparsePauliOp
from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService, Estimator
from quantum_serverless import save_result

service = QiskitRuntimeService()

# Run on a simulator
backend = service.get_backend("ibmq_qasm_simulator")
# Use the next line if you want to run on a system
# backend = service.least_busy(simulator=False)

circuit = random_circuit(2, 2, seed=1234)
observable = SparsePauliOp("IY")

estimator = Estimator(backend)
job = estimator.run(circuit, observable)
result = job.result()

# save results of program execution
save_result(result)
```

## Deploy workflow on Quantum Serverless

After creating a workflow, authenticate to the `IBMServerlessProvider` with your [IBM Quantum token](account-management), and upload the script.

```python
# Authenticate to the IBM serverless provider
from quantum_serverless import IBMServerlessProvider
serverless = IBMServerlessProvider("YOUR_IBM_QUANTUM_TOKEN")

# Deploy the workflow
from quantum_serverless import QiskitPattern
serverless.upload(
    QiskitPattern(
        title="My-Qiskit-Pattern",
        entrypoint="my_qiskit_pattern.py",

>         working_dir="./source_files/"

Reviewer: just checking if this is the right path for this example

Author: yes, should be... we're assuming the script is what's noted in the comment in `source_files/my_qiskit_pattern.py` in https://github.com/Qiskit/documentation/blob/0131c29dbffe4d6a662104ba93f8a13ea1df1390/docs/run/quantum-serverless.mdx#L21

---

> title: Run workloads using quantum serverless

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Run workloads with quantum serverless
```

description: Run workloads using quantum serverless
---

> # Run workloads using quantum serverless

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Run workloads with quantum serverless
```

> Premium users can run remotely their workloads on classical compute made available through IQP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Premium users can run their workloads remotely on classical compute made available through IBM Quantum Platform..
```

Reviewer 2: Spell out IQP

> Premium users can run their workloads remotely on classical compute made available through IBM Quantum Platform.

Reviewer 3: Since we are not bringing in Quantum Serverless docs (yet), we should link it and tell people to go there for more info.

## Build a workflow

> Here is an example of computing the quasiprobability distribution of a quantum circuit using the Qiskit Runtime Sampler Primitive. This python script should be saved in your working directory (Warning! All contents of the working directory will be shipped to the cluster for execution).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is an example of computing the quasi-probability distribution of a quantum circuit using the Qiskit Runtime Sampler primitive. This Python script should be saved in your working directory. (Warning! All contents of the working directory will be shipped to the cluster for execution.)
```

Reviewer 2: capitalization

> Here is an example of computing the quasi-probability distribution of a quantum circuit using the Qiskit Runtime Sampler primitive. This Python script should be saved in your working directory. (Warning! All contents of the working directory will be shipped to the cluster for execution.)

Reviewer: Good catch :) @psschwei let's use Sampler

> Here is an example of computing the quasi-probability distribution of a quantum circuit using the Qiskit Runtime Sampler primitive. This Python script should be saved in your working directory. (Warning! All contents of the working directory will be shipped to the cluster for execution.)

Reviewer 3: Actually can we change this all to use Estimator? Because 1) Estimator is far more popular and 2) Jay is thinking about killing Sampler lol

> Here is an example of computing the quasi-probability distribution of a quantum circuit using the Qiskit Runtime Sampler primitive. This Python script should be saved in your working directory. (Warning! All contents of the working directory will be shipped to the cluster for execution.)

Reviewer: Certainly :) 

We could use this example from the docs: https://learning.quantum-computing.ibm.com/tutorial/working-with-the-qiskit-runtime-estimator-primitive#3-initialize-the-qiskit-runtime-estimator

```python
# source_files/program.py

from qiskit import QuantumCircuit
from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService, Session, Options, Estimator

from quantum_serverless import save_result

# all print statement will be available in job logs
print("Running program 1...")

# creating circuit
circuit = QuantumCircuit(2)
circuit.h(0)
circuit.cx(0, 1)
circuit.measure_all()

service = QiskitRuntimeService()
options = Options(optimization_level=1)
options.execution.shots = 1024

# sessions allow grouping a collection of iterative
# calls to the quantum computer
with Session(service=service, backend="ibmq_qasm_simulator") as session:
    # running Estimator primitive
    estimator = Estimator(session=session, options=options)
    job = estimator.run(circuit)
    quasi_dists = job.result().quasi_dists

    # save results of program execution,
    # which will be accessible by calling `.result()`
    save_result(quasi_dists)

    # Close the session only if all jobs are finished
    # and you don't need to run more in the session.
    session.close()

print("Completed running program 1.")
```

## Remotely execute workflow on quantum serverless

> After creating a workflow, authenticate to the `IBMServerlessProvider` with your [IBM Quantum token](account-management). Finally, the workflow is ready to run remotely.

Author: maybe we split the difference and say something like "authenticate... with your IBM Quantum token, which can be obtained from your IBM Quantum account" (with token linking to the docs and account linking to the personal account page? or is that overcomplicating things?

> After creating a workflow, authenticate to the `IBMServerlessProvider` with your [IBM Quantum token](account-management). Finally, the workflow is ready to run remotely.

Reviewer 2: I'm good with that!
